This is a message
from the terrorist group FC.
To prove its authenticity,
we give our identifying number
as 553254394.
To The New York Times,
we are offering a bargain.
If you publish our manifesto,
we will permanently desist
from all terrorist activities.
The killer known as the Unabomber
says he will stop
mailing package bombs
if the newspapers will publish
his political theories.
As I'm sure you know,
bombs may attract attention,
but ideas start revolutions.
That is our sole aim,
and if we break our word,
people will lose respect for us
and be less likely to accept our ideas.
The question now is, can the word
of a serial killer be trusted?
Well, what have we learned
from the LAX incident?
His reputation is the most
important thing to him,
so if he says he'll stop bombing,
he'll stop bombing.
The United States government
does not negotiate with terrorists.
This is how we catch him.
If we publish, someone
will recognize his idiolect,
his ideology, or both.
You haven't got a fingerprint
in 17 years.
He just gave us a linguistic
fingerprint on a silver platter.
The United States government
does not negotiate with terrorists.
The FBI is a joke.
They've tried to portray these bombings
as the work of an isolated nut.
The so-called Unabomber,
blamed for 16 attacks in 17 years,
has now spoken out.
In several letters,
one to The New York Times,
the bomber denounced
the industrial society.
We publish the manifesto
and use his plan against him.
We did publish the Zodiac Killer.
Yeah, and he kept on killing
and nobody caught him,
which is why,
everybody together now,
the United States government
does not negotiate with terrorists.
Our goal is less to punish the people
pushing all this
growth-and-progress garbage
than it is to propagate ideas.
This outlines my whole case
for publication.
You can take it to Janet Reno,
you can take it to FBI Director Freeh.
I'm supposed to walk into
Janet Reno's office
and ask her to publicly give in
to the demands of a terrorist
because someone might
recognize his spelling?
If our manifesto is not published
by The New York Times
or some other nationally
distributed periodical,
another bomb is ready
to be delivered.
This is Bob Guccione,
the Editor-in-Chief
of Penthouse magazine.
I have been following
your correspondence
with The New York Times,
and I believe your offer
to desist from the bombing is genuine,
so I am offering to immediately
publish your article,
unedited, and in full,
in Penthouse magazine.
Our demographic is virtually
the same as The New York Times.
I might add we're the biggest-selling
magazine in the Pentagon.
Mr. Guccione, we are very pleased,
and we thank you.
While we don't have anything
against sex magazines,
it will obviously
be to our advantage
to be published in
a "respectable" periodical.
The New York Times
is to have the first claim
on the right to publish,
then The Washington Post,
and after that, Penthouse.
However,
if only Penthouse publishes,
we reserve the right
to plant one more deadly bomb.
Sir, please consider the case
for publication.
He sends us a manifesto,
and that was his first mistake,
and we should exploit it
for all it's worth.
His first mistake actually was
Nathan R.,
and as of 7 A.M. this morning,
we have Nathan R.
Nathan R.,
AKA Nathan Robinson,
out of San Jose.
He's an old acquaintance of,
guess who,
Leo Frederick Burt,
our current top suspect.
Our S.O.G. teams are hunting
down Robinson right now.
He's been charged with terroristic
threatening of a peace officer,
possession of narcotics,
mail fraud.
We put a tail on him,
there's a pretty good chance
he's going to lead us to Leo Burt.
The linguistic evidence
eliminated Leo Burt.
Okay, Fitz.
You've said your piece,
but we don't negotiate with terrorists.
Genelli, get to New York.
Brief The Times.
I'll be in Washington with
Director Freeh and Janet Reno.
That's it, folks.
Mia, look at that.
I mean, it really sparkles, right?
And it is setting --
- Hey.
Wow.
You know, this job,
they're always saying,
"If you guys have all the answers,
why haven't we caught him by now?"
It's, like, wake up.
I'm giving them so much,
and they just don't even listen.
Well, it's not all bad.
- No?
- No.
- Because?
- Because...
it's after 5:00 and I'm finally here
and there are no kids anywhere.
Mmm.
Well, he's just a kid.
It's easy to get passionate
about something
and not realize you're wrong.
He's not really a kid,
and he's not wrong, exactly.
It's...
He just has no practical
experience for what this means.
He's got no big picture.
So, what do you think?
Is it worth it?
This is it, Beth.
This case is the one.
This is how I'm going
to be remembered,
it's going to be my legacy.
There's so much
you'll be remembered for.
Eh, I could lock up
a million serial killers.
But I'll always be the guy
that led Unabom.
Yeah, that's me.
That's me forever.
The Scarlet U, huh?
Sweetie.
It's a buzzer shot,
and I only get one.
Sometimes I just wish I could...
pass the damn ball to the next guy.
There's no glory
but no catastrophe.
Just the path of least resistance.
Terrible, huh?
It's weak.
But, boy...
I think about it.
Director Freeh,
S.A.C. Ackerman,
Attorney General Reno
will be with you shortly.
Thank you.
Don, listen.
This is a cakewalk.
You're just telling her
what she wants to hear.
- Don't publish a terrorist.
- Leo Burt's a good lead.
And you've got a ton more
where that came from.
Mm-hmm.
All of the Tier 1 guys are solid.
Yeah.
Listen, you inherited a garbage case.
No one expects a miracle.
Reno just wants to know that we're
doing our jobs, which we are,
and wants to see a nice, thick folder,
which is what you have.
Genelli, it's Ackerman.
What's up?
I'm at The New York Times,
and I have some bad news.
It's okay, we'll --
we'll be fine,
but I got here early
for my meeting with Sulzberger.
There was this mail-room guy.
I followed him back to his desk.
You know the "call Nathan R." note
that was indented writing on the envelope
the Unabomber sent The Times?
Well, this mail-room guy handles
every letter that comes to The Times,
and he's really into Post-its.
That Unabom letter came
to The New York Times mail room
before it got to us.
That indented writing was made
by Reggie Halender,
mail intern here at The Times.
The Unabomber didn't write
the Nathan R. note.
There is no Nathan R.
You're telling me that we've
been chasing a dead lead
for the last two years?
Yeah.
- How many Nathan Rs have we been--
- I know. Sorry.
Goddamn it.
This doesn't change anything.
She wants broad strokes.
Just de-emphasize Nathan R
and focus on Burt
and the other top-tier leads.
This whole miniature
war-gaming thing
has officially taken over
the dining room table,
and Sean's really territorial about it,
and I can't even
suggest that he move it
without him freaking out.
You think I should
learn the game?
I think I should learn the game.
I think you've got quite enough
games in your life already.
It's not how I want it to be.
It really isn't.
Look, when I said that,
I just meant...
I know.
I know, but you're right.
You're right, because, you know,
no one at the UTF even really
listens to a word I say, so...
I might as well
be playing a game.
My work has hit a dead end,
so I'm going to ask Genelli,
because I think it's time
for me to come home.
Oh, love, I didn't...
That's not why I came here.
I mean, I would be so,
so happy to be a family again, but...
I just want to feel like
I'm making a difference.
- Hey, it's Fitz.
- You've got 30 minutes
to come up with something better
than forensic linguistics.
Nathan R. is a dead end,
but language is not enough here.
You bring me something
concrete and operational
that I can give to Reno
to back up your case,
well, then I might be willing
to float publication with the A.G.
If I do...
if...
then both our asses are on the line.
Do you understand me?
All right, now,
Cole is already on it.
You two brainstorm.
You be brilliant, quickly.
You got 29 minutes.
Go.
Concrete and operational.
Let's go.
Okay, we know he likes code,
so if we embed a code in a publication,
we can lure him into a conversation--
I said concrete and operational,
not esoteric intellectual crap.
Now, I know he's got 10 PhDs
and a 500 I.Q.,
but he's still a serial killer, right?
And what do serial killers want?
Control, power, respect.
Trophies.
Serial killers collect fingers, hairs.
Serial rapists collect underwear.
Right, so what's his trophy?
What does he want?
He wants us to publish
the manifesto in a newspaper.
Newspapers are his trophy.
So we publish it, he goes,
gets it, buys a copy.
What's that going to get us?
I mean, he can buy
The New York Times
at any newsstand in the country
any time he wants.
It's not actionable.
- The Post. Washington Post.
- What about it?
Every time I finish The Times
crossword, I go get The Post.
It's a pain in the ass
because you can only buy it
at one newsstand in the city.
So if we publish in The Post...
Then we know
he's in the Bay Area.
He'll want to see it.
He'll need to touch it.
He'll want to see people buying it.
He'll want to see people reading it.
He's going to want to see
his ideas make a difference.
Dude, that's 150 S.O.G., minimum.
Well, it's not my problem.
Fitz has got to sell it.
- Cole.
- What do you got?
Got Fitz and Tabby in here.
Hang on.
- Go ahead, Fitz.
- We know he's Bay Area,
and we think if we publish,
he would buy the paper as a trophy.
The Washington Post is sold at
only one newsstand in the Bay Area,
so if we publish exclusively
in The Post,
he'll have to come there and buy it,
so on publication day,
I'm proposing we follow
and identify every single person
who buys a Washington Post
in San Francisco.
This is a joke?
Do you realize the scale?
We would have to drain the entire
country of surveillance teams.
Yes, sir.
That's insane.
For chri-- Jesus.
Hello.
Madam Attorney General,
thank you for having us.
Director Freeh, S.A.C. Ackerman.
Thank you both for waiting.
I guess that's a no.
That was fun.
All right.
Back to work.
Thank you for seeing us
on such short notice.
Well, domestic terror has a way
of clearing the decks, doesn't it?
Especially when
the media is involved.
Can I get you a coffee
or some water?
"Wudder."
Are you from Philly?
Originally, yeah.
No, thank you.
We're fine.
So the Unabomber's publishing
deadline is approaching.
The Times and The Post
are on my call sheet.
What am I going to tell them?
Ackerman?
The FBI recommendation...
Don?
The FBI recommendation
is that we publish the manifesto,
in full.
We publish exclusively
in The Washington Post
as part of a two-pronged approach.
First prong--
forensic linguistics.
If we make the manifesto
widely accessible,
I believe that there is
an excellent chance
that a friend or a colleague
of the Unabomber
will recognize his unique language
and ideology
and will turn him in.
Second...
There's a high likelihood
that the Unabomber lives
in the Bay Area.
Now, The Washington Post is sold
at only one location in San Francisco.
This unique advantage will allow us
to stage a large surveillance operation
to follow, to question, to identify
every individual
who buys a copy of The Post
on the day of publication.
While this operation...
While the size and scale
of this operation is unprecedented,
we believe it to be
a singular opportunity
to lure the Unabomber
into the light.
That's an unusual strategy.
You're betting big
that he's in the Bay Area.
Well, we've traced
every Unabom letter,
package, and bomb to the exact
mailbox he dropped it in.
Every single one of them is within
an eight-mile radius of San Francisco.
If he's coming to town
to mail his bombs,
he'll come to town
to buy his manifesto.
And what's the precedent here?
Where do we stand
once all this is done?
I believe that we can say
with conviction
that publication is less to assuage
the demands of the attacker
than to use his plan against him
so that it establishes
a precedent of vigilance
rather than weakness on the part
of law enforcement.
If you catch him.
Yes, ma'am. If we catch him.
Big if.
Director Freeh,
is FBI HQ on board with this?
Don has taken it upon himself
to propose implementing
one of the largest surveillance
operations in FBI history.
We're happy to let Don
take the lead
and be the face
of this operation.
Don, you're nearing retirement,
aren't you?
You're aware of the implications
of this coming undone.
You still want to do it?
What I don't want to do
is see any more pictures
of ripped-up bodies,
and I don't want
to pawn this case off
on the next guy coming after me.
This is our best move.
It's risky.
We got others.
But this one's the best.
Well, I just want to make certain
that you're aware
of the consequences here.
What happened at Waco,
my decisions there,
will haunt me for the rest
of my natural life,
and I can say from experience
that everything's different
when the camera
is pointed at you.
Yeah.
But I'd rather respect
the man I see in the mirror
than the man I see on TV.
Okay.
Let's do it.
You have the full support
of the D.O.J.
Madam Attorney General.
- Director.
- Thank you.
Don, I admire
your moral courage in this.
It isn't always rewarded,
and in your case,
I certainly hope it is.
Thank you,
Madam Attorney General.
I'm following you.
- Mrs. Fitzgerald?
- Hi.
I'm Tabby Miller.
Great to finally meet you.
It's nice to meet you.
Welcome to the biggest
shit show on Earth.
They're asking for...
Publication,
stuff that we're...
- Hi.
- I needed to see this.
- Hey. You made it.
- Is this okay?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just insane here today.
This is Natalie Rogers.
- Hi.
- Hi!
- So nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you.
I work with your husband.
I've been hearing
so much about you.
Have you?
Gentlemen,
good where you are.
S.A.C. Ackerman?
Good afternoon.
My name is Don Ackerman,
special agent in charge,
FBI, San Francisco,
and one of the leaders
of the UNABOM Task Force.
The Attorney General,
Janet Reno,
and FBI Director Louis J. Freeh
today announced
that they recommend
the publication
of the Unabomber's manifesto.
Concern for public safety
ultimately led to this decision.
The UNABOM Task Force
continues to encourage
the cooperation of the American
public by calling our hotline.
The FBI can now be found
at our brand-new home page
on the World Wide Web at
www.fbi.gov,
and in the coming days,
we will upload the manifesto
for anyone to access.
We ask that the public
pay particular attention
to the philosophies in the manifesto
and to try to recall
if they know any individuals
who have had
similar philosophies
or who have written
in similar linguistic styles...
Philosophies.
We told him to say that.
We believe that with the help
of the American public,
the Unabomber will have
no place to hide.
And now I will take your questions.
So good.
Whoo!
Hey, I forgot to tell you.
I got a call this morning
from school,
and they've got head lice
going around like crazy.
They were asking if
I could come in.
Begging, actually.
I told them no
because I kind of feel
like you need me here, right?
It's fine if you need to go.
Don't worry about me.
If you want to go back,
it's okay.
Okay, but I don't want to go.
Okay, then stay, have some fun,
but I'm not gonna be around.
I'm gonna stay.
What--what's the matter?
What do you want me to say?
It's fine.
Go. Go, go.
Let us describe
what has happened plainly.
It is blackmail, pure and simple.
Since when do we trust a serial killer?
The bomber
calls his manifesto
"Industrial Society and its Future."
Eight solid-gray pages,
perhaps as likely to be discarded
as trudged through to reach
the Unabomber's central thesis
that technology has gotten
the human race into a fix
from which there is not likely
to be any easy escape.
Now that his so-called
manifesto has been published
in The Washington Post,
say investigators,
they're hoping for more than
just a cease-fire
in the bombings and threats.
Maybe somewhere in this
densely-worded text,
there will be some concrete clues
to his identity,
which may finally
net investigators an arrest.
Be advised, this is PO1.
Unsub is a black male,
black shirt, jeans, going into the park.
PO1, this is PO5.
I have the eye.
SF2, this is SF1.
Unsub is white male, 60s, gray shirt,
moving inside the park.
This is SF1.
I have eyes on unsub 4.
SF3, this is SF1.
Unsub is a white female, gray suit.
She's exiting onto Stockton Street.
SF1, this is SF3.
I have the eye.
PO4, this is PO1.
Unsub is a white male,
40s, short hair, red shirt.
I've got the eye.
White male in his 40s.
Listen,
once you clear your unsubs,
please will you circle
back around, ASAP.
Woman, on radio:
...Agent is moving into position now.
Copy.
Half of San Francisco's
shown up just to buy the manifesto.
What a world, huh?
LA 12, this is LA 1.
Unsub is a white male,
blue shirt, khakis...
This is LA1.
I have the eye.
Yeah, copy that.
SF4, this is SA 1.
Subject is a black male,
brown leather jacket,
30s, uh,
just stopped at the newsstand.
Excuse me, sir.
I need to ask you a couple--
Burkhardt, what's your status?
Subject cooperative.
He's a regular customer of Harold's.
...A brown Saturn,
license plate number
2-Yankee-Bravo-November-6-1-7.
No, sorry.
Unsub is a white male,
20s, black leather jacket,
moving South on the plaza.
Sacramento 3,
requesting data on unsub 5.
the unsub 5 is Rafael Fetters,
Pacific Heights, should be all clear.
Follow him to his destination,
proceed with the interview.
Anything particular that
you bought The Post for today?
PO3, this is PO1.
Unsub is white male, 50s,
brown leather jacket.
Yeah!
CA9, his name is Willie Wright.
No NCIC hits, subject clear.
We're good to clear.
Return to staging area.
Copy that.
Running out of time.
Newsstand's closing soon.
Should have been here by now.
No NCIC hits, subject cleared.
- Cleared.
- Subject is cleared.
Nothing to do here.
- Subjects are cleared, repeat, cleared.
Unsub 109, white male, 50s,
green hooded jacket, sunglasses.
This is the last guy.
We've cleared everyone else.
That's the profile.
He's got it.
SF67, I want you on unsub 109.
Eyes on unsub 109, copy that.
Later.
Gonna lose him.
Going into BART.
Gonna lose you.
Copy that.
Now arriving, Powell Street.
Stand clear.
The doors are closing.
Please stand clear of the doors.
Now arriving,
Rockridge Station.
The doors are closing.
Please stand clear of the doors.
She's been out of touch too long.
Montgomery Station.
The doors are closing.
Please stand clear of the doors.
FBI! Stop!
FBI! Stop! Get down!
FBI.
Out of the way.
Unh!
FBI! Freeze!
Get on the ground!
Get on the ground now!
Come in, SF67.
Tabby, you there?
- You bitch.
- Don't move.
Are you him?
Are you carrying a device?
Go to hell.
- Is there a bomb in that bag?
- Augh!
What the hell
are you talking about?
Oh, shit.
Yeah.
He's just some damn druggie.
He's got a bunch of open warrants.
That's why he was acting weird.
Sex with a minor,
possession, distribution--
you name it, he's wanted for it.
Except Unabom.
Right.
So a total failure, then.
Oh, it was a brave call.
That's too bad.
Thank you.
We're always negotiating
with terrorists.
In fact, our government
is negotiating with terrorists
out of one corner of its mouth
while, out of the other side
of its mouth,
it tells the American public,
"No, we don't deal with terrorism.
"We couldn't possibly
deal with terrorists,"
whereas that's exactly what they do,
so it's nothing new.
It's just that we're seeing publicly
for the first time
what hypocrites the FBI
truly are, and, frankly...
- Fitz.
- they look like fools
in front of the entire nation.
The Unabomber had called them fools,
and we can all see that he was correct.
If I were an FBI agent right now,
I would be ashamed.
Ashamed to show my face,
ashamed of my institution.
Excuse me.
You're a pornographer saying
the FBI should be ashamed?
That's right.
At Penthouse magazine,
we don't say one thing
and do another.
We don't say, "Oh, we're so
high and mighty and pure."
We never stoop to
bargaining with a terrorist
then basically bend over,
spread our cheeks for him
in front of the whole world,
which is what the FBI just did,
and I think the country has to think
long and hard about that.
Who can we really trust?
I know you think this is a setback.
It's really a huge win.
The manifesto's out there.
People will read it to someone
who'll recognize his idiolect--
Yeah, everyone's
recognizing the "idiolect."
You've taken
the investigation backwards.
We now have a tip line that's
being pounded by every ex-wife,
every pissed-off sister-in-law,
every brother with a grudge
in the country.
It's all garbage.
Some birthday cards,
a grocery list.
Got a book report from
"My Side of the Mountain."
Here's a good one.
You recognize the spelling on that?
The fax machine is
spitting this stuff out faster
than we can reload the paper,
let alone the mail.
The country's trash can's
being dumped in our lap here,
and it's all worthless.
All of it.
Your TDY with
the UNABOM Task Force is terminated,
and if we need
your expertise again,
we'll make sure to contact you.
There's still a lot of work
I could do with document analysis.
You want to know the truth, Fitz?
I feel I can tell you this, frankly.
You're going to have
a long career with the FBI,
but it's not because
you're talented or special.
See, you've been telling
yourself your whole life
that all of your problems
are because you're an artist,
because you're a special snowflake.
But you're not.
You're just another asshole.
And you're going home now
so we can bring in some other
asshole to replace you.
And guess what?
No one's gonna even know
the difference.
Okay, that's it.
Dan, we're gonna
move this down here.
Okay.
Clear everything off.
Everything, please.
Watch out, Dad.
Can't mess it up.
If one piece falls,
it's gonna screw up the entire game.
Don't screw up the entire game.
You need to ask Mrs. DeFrancis
for a ride to practice Thursday.
Not home from, to.
I can't do it.
I know, I heard you.
Dad's going to pick you up,
though, all right?
- Okay.
- Right, right?
Right.
- Mademoiselle.
- Merci.
- Ah, oui?
- Could I --
- Hello?
- Hey, it's me.
Hey, sweetheart.
How's the conference going?
Good, good, um...
It's--it's--it's going good.
Everything okay?
Um, I... I don't want to,
uh, upset you.
I just, um...
Have you read
the Unabomber manifesto yet?
No.
I think you should.
I think you should, um,
go get The Washington Post and read it.